foreign
if you think about it this way it's like
if you have a conversation with the
person and at the end of that
conversation they feel like they
understand themselves better they
understand their business better they
want to continue to have conversations
with you welcome to the art of
accomplishment where we explore how
deepening connection with ourselves and
others leads to creating the life we
want with enjoyment and ease my name is
Brett Kistler I'm an adventurer
entrepreneur and a self-exploration
Enthusiast I'm here with my co-host Joe
Hudson Joe is a business coach who spent
decades working with some of the world's
top Executives and teams developing a
unique model of human patterns that
underpin how we operate with ourselves
each other and the world a good entry
point into this model is a mindset
called view vulnerability impartiality
empathy and wonder through understanding
and cultivation we learn to easefully
drop into the view State of Mind
deepening self-awareness and increasing
our connection with the world around us
to learn more about this podcast or
courses visit art of accomplishment.com
come
there are so many approaches out there
for deepening communication and
interpersonal skills whether in the
realm of the personal or the
professional
these Frameworks are often composed of
learned strategies and techniques that
offer prescriptive style adjustments
that may be directionally correct but
most fall short of pointing to the root
conditions that facilitate true depth in
human connection
what if the key ingredient at the core
of strong communication is not a
strategy but a state of mind and how can
we cultivate a more connective way of
being through practice in our
relationships as they are right now
these are the questions behind a
practice we call view which we'll be
covering in this five part series
[Music]
so Joe what is View
oh
practically it's a way to have
conversations it's a communication
methodology
that allows your conversations to be far
more effective and by effective I mean
more connected more intimate and more
productive
from anything from sales to product
development to
conversations with your husband or wife
or co-worker
and it's particularly good at creating
like I said more connection but also
it's really good at embracing any kind
of conflict or having difficult
conversations
so practically that's what it is but
realistically it's it's a state of mind
it's it's communicating from a state of
mind yeah I'm practicing that state of
mind okay what do you mean by
realistically to answer that question I
have to really talk about how the whole
thing came about
and the way that it came about was
you know I was
um an investor for a while and
and I hired this consultant at some
point and
this consultant had this amazing
capacity he had this capacity to do two
things one he could sit down and have a
conversation with somebody in a very
short period of time they could have a
breakthrough where they would
see themselves in the world differently
and in a way that gave them more freedom
and more capacity
and
he also had this great ability to sell
he couldn't sell what he didn't believe
in so he always sold stuff that he
really cared about but he could sell and
and I would watch him sit with somebody
who was absolutely the opposite of him
and characteristic and he would just ask
questions and he would end up selling
whatever it is that he was there to sell
like about 80 percent of the time I
would say generally he had an 80 hit
rate in both of these two kinds of
conversations
and I would say to him wow how did you
do that and he goes it's not the
technique okay you can't do this if
you're trying to learn the technique
I've tried he was he was this guy was a
character's name was case and he would
just be like you can't learn it it's not
a technique that's what he would say and
um anyway so case uh got ill with cancer
unfortunately
um has passed away
but he wanted a very particular
technique of healing that you can only
find in California so he came to
California and he lived with my family
we became very close we were very close
before that and I would watch him have
these conversations every day and
and I've learned a lot through osmosis
and I I had already been 20 something
years of self-discovery so a lot of it
made sense to me
but when he passed I was like I know
there's other people who can do this and
and I knew like one famous person who
could do you know could have a similar
kind of set of conversations and I was
like I'm gonna go find out what makes
this tick and so I went around the world
looking for people found people
and realize what they all had in common
and what they all had in common was was
view what acronym of view and I'm sure
we'll get into for a second in a second
but the
but the the main thing is that it is the
state of mind that allows it it is not
the technique
and so that's why I say realistically
it's the state of mind because if you
see this and view this as a technique it
won't work
and if you see it as practicing a state
of mind that allows for the technique to
work if there's a technique even needed
there's definitely a technique that
helps
um then you can have a tremendous amount
of success with it and not just the
success of like wow now I can have good
conversations it's it's success in like
oh now I talk to myself in a different
way oh now I am in a um a frame of mind
and I have a perspective that's more
open more free more loving
yeah and come to think of that I've seen
some of the some of the aspects of this
work in other places as techniques and
they just never seem to land quite as
deeply and uh this this state of mind
concept seems to really be key here
uh can you explain a little bit more
about that
neurologically and physically when we
communicate
there's a lot of things going on besides
what we say
there is
our body language there is the empathy
that's happening via mirror neurons
there's intonation there's micro
Expressions there's so many things that
are happening outside of language and as
animals with mirror neurons we know that
that's happening whether we want to
admit it to ourselves or not there's
some part of us that has the awareness
of this stuff
and they they can't be faked micro
Expressions can't be faked it is a
representation of what's actually
happening in your system on an emotional
level and on a nervous system level
and so if you are using it as a
technique
it can't work because the actual state
of mind is going to shine through in
these other non
in these other non-intellectual ways and
and so if you think about that
for a second it's like this um it's a
very cool thought process if you if you
see people they learn these great
techniques that are out there like a
non-violent communication or something
like that and all of a sudden they've
been weaponized you just see them being
weaponized right it's like
you see all this communication training
go south I mean if you've done
communication training you know you've
done it and then it's gone South right
and if it's because it's the
communication is a natural out point of
your state of mind and it can help you
change your state of mind but if you
just focus on it like I'm practicing a
state of mind and that communication
comes out of it it it's just far more
successful can you give us an example of
that
yeah so uh
let's say your boyfriend or girlfriend
wants your undivided attention and you
don't particularly want to give it to
them you want to watch like the soccer
match or you want to watch uh ER or
whatever it is
but you decide like oh they're going to
be pissed if I don't or oh my God I'm
gonna listen to the [__] forever if I
don't so then you give them your
attention but it's unwilling it's it's
full of resentment it's it's frustrated
let's just say and inevitably you'll be
paying attention to the person who asks
you to pay attention and then they're
going to start getting frustrated
now you don't really want to be here and
you're like well what the hell you know
I just I just stopped what I was doing
to give you the attention that you asked
for now that's not good enough like this
is right who hasn't been in this
conversation yeah exactly that's how it
starts and it's because you're you it's
obvious and everything besides your
language that you don't want to be there
paying attention
and so it doesn't feel good because we
know it and that that's what I mean if
if the state of mind isn't oh I want to
pay attention to you it will never work
if the state of mind and the
communication is I'm trying to get
something out of you which is the
antithesis of you then it'll never work
no matter what technique you use and
then then sometimes we actually are
duped by believing somebody's intentions
that aren't true through you know
whatever whatever techniques they're
using so how does how does that work how
does it work when uh when somebody's
state of mind doesn't shine through
their state of mind maybe if they're
like a sociopath so they're not they're
not actually having a very particular
kind of experience when like a very
natural Human Experience
when they're talking to you uh
outside of something like that then it's
really two things that happens when you
can't sense this from other people one
is that you have something you want to
believe and they are giving you that so
we'll believe a lie if it rhymes with
the truth that we want to believe you
see this in mass media all the time it's
like okay cool they said that and that
that that rhymes with what I believe so
I'm gonna buy into that
or sales people you know our
infomercials yeah you could be rich and
without any effort oh I want to believe
that so you can so that's part of the
ways that we get duped is that we're
actually basically duping ourselves and
the other thing that happens is
that if you study trauma and I just
don't I don't mean like huge trauma that
also is true like you know like a war
trauma or a car accident trauma but even
like the minor traumas of
always being criticized by somebody who
is supposed to be nurturing you when we
hear somebody that reminds us of that
trauma then we're not actually hearing
them we're not actually with them or
with the person
or people who like helped us get that
trauma into our bones and there's this
great data on that about how
you're kind of not in the same time and
space when you're moving to trauma you
know and you you see this with War
veterans all the time in a major way
right where they think they're in the
war even though they're you know on
their living room sofa it happens in
minor ways all the time and so in those
places then we're not really aware of
the person's intentions
so those are the two main ways it
happens yeah like there are those times
when when somebody starts acting like a
child and it's like wait a minute okay
they're acting the age they were
when the thing that this is mapping onto
occurred to them exactly that's exactly
right and and it's why like you can
learn really duplicitous sales
techniques and they work you know one
out of eight times because you're just
basically fishing for the fish who wants
that bait and so you can do that and it
looks like it works
but if you're authentic and you're
actually in a deep care for the person
then it works a lot more effectively and
there's great studies on this of like
what are the best sales techniques and
you see that like they did this with car
salesmen it was a like I think it was
even used car salesman
and they were like who are the most
effective car salesmen and there was
good car salesman and really good car
salesman and then there was these just
unbelievably great salesmen like just in
numbers
and the cases of those unbelievably
great performers it was because they
actually cared about their customer they
saw it as a relationship those
relationships came back over and over
again and they saw their job as to
really help that person be in the right
vehicle
and people knew it and so it worked like
the numbers worked far better than the
whatever it is one in eight
and they would I think it was something
like I I can't you can't quote me on it
but it was something something like
three times the performance of an
average car salesperson
so what does Vue stand for
yeah the acronym it's uh V is the
vulnerability I is impartiality e is
empathy and W is Wonder so that's what
it stands for vulnerability impartiality
empathy and wonder
and that's really describing the state
of mind
right and there's some techniques
layered on top of that not much and
they're not necessary if you're actually
in that vulnerable impartial empathetic
um and full of wonder state of mind so
it seems sort of like almost like ways
to check that you're in the state of
mind if you're in the state of mind that
these point to then you will be having
vulnerability and partiality empathy and
wonder yeah it's like that it's also
like they're great ways I use these four
ways to describe it because they're
great ways to sink into it quickly
you know so if you're not there what are
what are the best techniques what are
the best words reminders to get you
there quickly yeah that makes sense okay
so let's go through each of them what do
what do each of these mean to you so
vulnerability is to speak your truth
even when it's scary that's what it is
to be vulnerable is to be actually very
much yourself in your truth even though
you're scared of the result or the
potential result uh impartiality is not
trying to achieve an outcome for
yourself or others
so it's like it's far more like
wandering than it is like
goal orientation
um empathy is to be with a person in
their emotions
and wonder is it's a lot like curiosity
except for you're not looking for the
answer there's a lot more awe and wonder
than there is in curiosity
but you're definitely not looking for
the answer vulnerability sounds a lot
like weakness for a lot of people and so
how do you come up with this definition
for vulnerability yeah I think the
reason that people think being
vulnerable as being weak is because they
get confused with uh the difference
between being weak and feeling weak so
when we are vulnerable there's often a
visceral response in our body is an
emotional response a nervous system
responses like oh I'm gonna get weak I
mean I'm I'm being weak and I'm gonna
get attacked I think you're gonna you're
gonna get that
um when you're being vulnerable
especially for the first you know 10 or
so times so I think that's where that
confusion comes from vulnerable the
reason I describe it this way is if
you're not in your truth you can't be
vulnerable
right so if you're not if you're not in
your truth and you're there's no
exposure if I'm pretending to be
somebody else and you attack me for
being somebody else is like well they're
not really attacking me they're
attacking someone else it's so that's
the truth part of it and then
the second part of it is even when it's
scary and so
being in Our Truth isn't scary if we
don't think we're gonna get attacked
being in Our Truth isn't scary when we
don't feel like somebody will judge us
aren't scared of the consequences
and so vulnerability is being in your
truth even when we're scared of those
consequences and it's and it's really
the opposite of weakness It's actually
an incredible form of strength
and it's a very deep practice Yeah like
it can take you a very long way if you
if you practice it on a daily basis yeah
it reminds me of the uh the definition
of courage which is that uh courage
isn't the lack of fear courage is the
willingness to feel fear yeah yeah not
overcome it but feel it that yes so
right yeah that's it
so that's that's vulnerability
um yeah let's get into impartiality yeah
which is I mean it sounds impossible
like and especially in business I mean
theoretically you could just be
completely impartial in your entire life
and how would you get anywhere that you
want to go yeah that's the Assumption it
has to be some partiality right yeah so
there definitely is some partiality
there's no like if you really really pay
attention every sentence that we have
has
some little bit of an agenda in it so
it's very asymptotic in that way meaning
that it like we can keep on getting less
and less partial but we can't become
completely 100 impartial
um but what I'm talking about here is
the difference between
getting in your car at a very specific
time to get to your job at a very
specific time and making sure that you
get there and getting in a car
and driving around following what feels
great to follow in that moment and
wandering kind of like the old-fashioned
Sunday drive that's what I'm talking
about so in that case one is highly
partial it is let's get in the car let's
get there let's get there on time this
is the route I want to take and I don't
want traffic and blah blah blah blah
blah and one of them is like
I'm partial in the fact that I want to
take a drive but I don't care where I
end up and I am here to enjoy myself and
so that's that's the thing and the
reason this is so important is because
we feel when somebody has an agenda for
us
and we resist it and just tell a
two-year-old to do something and the
nature of them isn't no right so the
more agenda that we have and you feel
with like a sales person all the time
they really want you to buy the less you
want to buy even if you buy you're like
no it's like stop [__] trying to sell
me
um that's what I mean by agenda and with
business what's interesting is everyone
thinks that you need to be highly
partial to be good at business you you
do have to have a clear intention you do
have to have a clear goal there's no
doubt there uh how you get there
if you're really highly partial it's
going to slow you down and because there
might be 10 ways to get there that are
better or quicker or better for the
people who are getting you there
so impartiality is actually far more
efficient as a way of getting someplace
in business and the way I talk about or
think about that often is
there is a river that we are on
particularly in business where there's
kind of where the customer wants to go
what's needed what's wanted where the
employees want to go right and if you
are
reading that River and going with that
River
then there's a lot less effort and if
you decide you're going against that
River if you decide that you are
going to like not go with the flow but
go against the flow or count of the flow
it's a lot more effort or building Canal
as you've said before or build a canal
yeah so so that's the thing so
so to be impartial it works incredibly
well and you know I work with
um as you know some like Executives
running you know companies of thousands
of people and there's like this amazing
click that happens when they they
realize like oh if I can be impartial in
these ways not give up my goal but be
impartial in how this thing happens and
being partial with people I actually
discover what is
and then I can use that information and
use that data to create a better plan
and if I don't try to force a particular
thing and we just agree on a goal then
all of a sudden things move so much
quicker and have so much more efficiency
[Music]
it's the hardest one for people to get
impartiality so hard yeah yeah it
reminds me of a example you've mentioned
before about trying to plan a whole
basketball game
that sounds like a good example can you
tell me what it is I've completely
forgotten oh yeah
um so like you have a clear goal which
is to put the ball in the hoop
um and if you try to plan the whole
thing and you're partial to no the the
ball is going to go to this person now
but somebody's already in the way so
like passing it to them is clearly not a
good idea if you're not open to other
options then you you're not going to
make it to your goal that's it that's it
that's exactly it awesome thanks for
remembering that empathy then uh so some
folks feel lost in empathy and they they
get lost in the other person and
they they lose their own goals they lose
their own wants yeah so empathy isn't
that you know so I would say empathy is
being with somebody in their emotions so
it's not avoiding their emotional state
it's not trying to change their
emotional state it's not trying to make
them happy it's not trying to get them
to an epiphany
empathy is just like oh you're there and
I'm with you but it's also not being in
it with them it's not believing the
story and saying oh it's true your
husband does your wife does you and your
boss oh my God they are taking advantage
it's not it's also not losing your own
emotional state yeah it oftentimes will
will be so empathetic with people that
whatever they're feeling we're feeling
oh you're right I am the bad guy yeah
I'm terrible to you oh shame yes that's
like a perfect way that people are
empathetic in a way that they've lost
themselves so it's not true empathy
true empathy is being with somebody it's
being next to them it's like holding
their hand it's not losing yourself in
them so then uh then Wonder then and you
said wonder and not curiosity are as
opposed to your distinct from curiosity
why not curiosity why Wonder
curiosity is I mean it's a lovely thing
it's like oh what's happening over there
uh but there's something that switches
in your physical state like if you just
right now think to yourself oh what's
happening for Brett in this conversation
there's kind of an open expansiveness
that happens with that question but then
as soon as you try to figure it out
something constricts wonder is that open
living in the openness of the question
with awe and curiosity can be that but
curiosity can also become very focused
on need the answer need the answer need
the answer
and so I'm pointing by using the word
Wonder to that being in the question
without needing to get an answer
if you just stop and think about like
what would it be like to be with a
person who's just in the question with
me
who's just like has wonder about what's
happening with me and they don't need me
to solve anything like you can feel your
whole system relax
yeah that makes for a lot of ease in a
sales conversation as well right exactly
if you're not in that ease and you're
like focused on trying to figure out ER
than the person's mirror neurons are
like well I don't want to be around this
so in a way all of this feels very
process based yeah that's right yeah
it's interesting that you you mentioned
it recently I was watching a Ted Talk on
uh design process
and one of the things that they were
talking about in this in this lecture
was how
if you're shooting for a result you
won't get it the the thing you have to
do is stay focused on the process and
it's going to go sideways it's not going
to go well at times but the output is
consistently better than if you're going
for a particular result
and so if you look at design Theory they
they all talk about this process and
having like faith in the process and
that it will lead you to the outcome
and if you leave the process it won't
lead you to the outcome and this is this
the the exact same thing it's very much
like living principally you're saying
here are the principles I'm living by
because I know consistently if I live by
them it works out in the way that that
works for me
and works for my
my deepest truth and it's the same thing
with this it's that guy case that I
talked about in the earlier part of the
program he would get into these
conversations because I have no idea
what the hell is going to happen
and he always pointed to that
and that's what he's saying he's saying
that I don't know what's going to happen
because if I did or if I tried to make
it happen in a particular way it's going
to go to [__] so it's far better for me
to just be in this process and Trust the
process so it sounds like this is a way
to trust and flow with the like
self-organizing social and business
dynamics that are already occurring
and not get in the way of them through
uh kind of narrow-minded constraint or
right management of the process
or over management yeah that's right so
an example is that you know for a while
there I directed short films and one of
the things that I learned was that if I
wanted a very specific result from an
actor I'd get a horrible performance
whereas if I could give the actor a
clear objective then
their performance just did really really
well and it's a really similar thought
process is that
if you hold that objective and you trust
in the process
then it works out and that's not to say
this is an interesting part because a
lot of people when they start learning
view they think so then I'm not allowed
to have an opinion or I'm not allowed to
have a boundary that's absolutely not
the case those are really important
things and they can be actually
incredibly vulnerable things to say and
in business all the time I'll say
you know what I'm not okay with is this
and I'll just leave that up front on the
table like this doesn't work for me here
the reasons it doesn't work for me so
how do we
solve that problem but then I'm
impartial
once I have that and I'm even impartial
as far as if someone says why what is it
what are you missing like I'm open to
listening to that but if I'm not
convinced out of it I'm not going to
pretend that I am to be in a view
conversation because that can't be
because if I'm if I'm not being true to
myself inside the conversation I can't
be vulnerable
I can't be impartial either for that
matter and and it's very hard to be
curious and the person's not doing
business with you yeah exactly and then
you're right exactly and then it's gonna
go to [__] eventually anyhow exactly
right yeah so you mentioned earlier that
there are techniques this is this is all
a process around a frame of mind that it
emerges from but that there are
techniques so
there must be something to help point us
back to this frame of mind yeah yeah
it's it's how and what questions so
that's that's the entirety of the
technique is to ask how and what
questions there's there's a technique
that's more for running meetings that
I've developed as well and there but the
general thing is how and what questions
and the reason is is because they're
open-ended questions so if you say do
you like ice cream I get to say yes or
no if you say how do you feel about ice
cream you might hear a story of my
childhood and you might hear that
chocolate chip is my favorite
and you might hear about my dairy
allergy or you might hear how like I had
a cow when I was a kid like you have no
idea what you're going to hear and so
you get access to so much more data
which shows that you're actually in
Wonder and if you only want to hear yes
or no you're not really in wonder
so it's how what questions and which are
mainly because they're open questions
um obviously there's who what where when
and why
um and all those other ones are good but
they're just not very common how and
what are the most common ones and we
don't use why questions in the technique
because
of two reasons one is most people when
they're saying a why question they're in
judgment you know it's why'd you do that
there's not real curiosity there it's
just like you should feel shitty and I
want you to make an excuse for yourself
is really what that communication is why
wasn't this done on time why wasn't this
done on time is this you know it's like
you're looking for them to make an
excuse you're you're already in a
judgment place with them typically not
always the other reason that why
questions don't work so well is because
they're the hardest questions to
actually answer there's a somebody who
said why questions are the questions
that scientists can't
answer like why is the sun is a really
hard question and and I would say
unanswerable question whereas what makes
the Sun how did the Sun get there those
are answerable questions so that's the
other thing and or at least there's a
lot of information you can speak on
about it yeah yeah exactly and the other
thing is
um yeah so true it's exactly you get
information you get data uh but the
other thing is that usually when I talk
about all this somebody will say to me
yeah but you can be judgmental with how
what questions and yes you can you can
be judgmental with anything what makes
you such a dick yeah what makes you say
but yeah and the funniest thing is when
I'm doing view I might actually ask that
question like hey what what's making you
such a dick right now
and if I say it from view if I say it
with vulnerability impartial if I say it
like oh my God this is kind of scary to
say this to this person
but it's true for me that they're being
a dick and I'm actually quite curious I
have Wonder there right and I don't
really need them to answer in a
particular way or or nor do I want them
to not be a dick and I actually can
empathize with them
then their answers can be and it happens
all the time in my world where I can say
what's making you such a dick right now
and they're like laugh or they'll say oh
yeah I've had a bad day or blah blah
blah it's not what makes you such a dick
right right one of one of those ways of
asking it is open to all answers like
hey did you have a rough day like what's
what's going on with you yes and another
one of them is just like you better have
a really [__] good excuse for this
you know exactly that's exactly it
yeah so that's but why questions just
imply it more and it's more easy for the
person on the other side to assume it
than how or what questions also how and
what questions make you reframe
questions in a new way which
triggers your brain you know it's like
it kind of opens your neurology for a
second when you say to somebody
something like what is it that's making
you such a dick
it's not a way we'd normally phrase the
question and so it does something to
them and to us
yeah yeah I found after after doing this
work there's been so many times where
I've been in a conversation I'm about to
say something and it starts with
something other than how or what and
then I pause
and then I find the thing I'm curious
about and then a question comes out and
the conversation goes in a totally
different direction that's right yeah
exactly that's what happens all the time
and it's not just different it's also
like far more meaningful and productive
often you know I'll do this in a room
full of like
high-powered Executives and after we
have our first few conversation I'll say
so that you just had a 10-minute meeting
have you ever had such a productive
10-minute meeting
and that's like that's the moment of
realization that everybody goes through
where they're like holy crap without an
agenda
I just solved more puzzles or I just
overcame more roadblocks and then I have
having an hour-long meeting with a
direct report pushing them to an answer
right and there's a there's a
two-sidedness to it there's a there's a
side that we spoke to earlier where
um the open-ended questions give you
more information more data
but uh on the yes on the other side the
person gets to be heard
and speak their piece and speak to their
wants and needs rather than checking a
box of like oh which option was I given
vanilla or chocolate exactly and and
because of that you can actually come up
with a better solution for a problem if
you're in that position in the
conversation but also oftentimes that's
all that anybody actually needs like I
see this happen all the time where say a
manager wants people to go in One
Direction and the people don't want to
go and all they actually need is to be
heard and when they get heard fully
heard they're like okay I'll go in that
direction that makes sense we've all
lived in that situation where we are
basically being stubborn and no I don't
want to do it and then when we feel
fully heard we're like oh okay almost
every complaint I've ever heard about a
boss or an employee has had some form of
I don't feel heard in it yeah that's
right tell me a time that you were at
your Peak productivity and you felt
unheard
yeah I know yeah exactly nobody can
unless I was shutting myself out from
everybody else and doing Peak
productivity with myself
right
which means that you weren't being
productive in a team that's right okay
so so let's swing back to the science
around this tell me more about that yeah
there's a lot of stuff out there in
Psychology and Neuroscience and
you know CBT all sorts of different
kinds of uh studies that support what's
happening if you're in a view State of
Mind
uh but let's focus on let's say two or
three of the main ones one of them is
just a simple thing if you
are under attack you can't be curious or
if you're under attack you can't learn
because you're not curious
so we know this uh and on many different
levels one we know that if
kids feel under stress they don't do as
well on tests they don't learn as
quickly
we know that
um we know that if two people are in a
fight here's something you've never seen
right one person's like you son of a
blah blah blah blah blah you stupid and
the other person says
oh you know what you're right yeah yeah
I get your point
we don't do that because it's
neurologically not possible
and so that's let's say the extreme
attack where we can never see somebody
end up being curious or learning
and then there's just more and more
subtle forms of attack and the most
subtle forms of attack are you just
trying to push somebody into doing what
you want them to do
be happy stop crying just do this task
and the more that attack is there the
more you're trying to push somebody into
something and be different than who they
are the less able they are to learn so
that's just a simple one and if you
think about it just this way it's like
if you visualize if you close your eyes
and you visualize yourself like running
from a lion and you're running as fast
as you can and it's like you can hear
the pause hitting the ground you know
it's catching up to you it's going to
pounce on you at any minute and it's a
huge thing you know you're dead and it's
coming it's coming it's coming it's
coming here's what you don't do you
don't go
oh I wonder how much it weighs
right and if you stop if you actually do
that exercise and you stop and you go
how much does it weigh all the fear goes
away
which is why wonder is such an important
thing to point to because if you
actually stop and say what am I curious
curious about what do I have actual deep
Wonder for then the fear that you have
dissipates and if you're trying to push
somebody into something that's because
you're in fear that's what creates the
drama of our life is our incapacity to
love people as they are
and we're scared of something and so we
start trying to push them around so this
lion example brings up a good point that
fear is actually useful because if you
if you did stop running from the lion to
think about how much it weighs then you
would get eaten right so fear is helpful
but it's just a lot of times in our
lives we end up having a stress response
that doesn't match the actual moment so
what it seems like you're pointing to
with view is really cultivating a lower
homeostatic set point for stress from
which open-ended questions can emerge
naturally and curiosity can exist that's
all all together true and then there's
also a practical thing which is we are
not going to be as open we are not going
to learn as much we are not going to
want to hang out with as much people who
are scared in their conversation with us
therefore trying to control us and we'll
trust them less and we'll trust them
less that's right
because they're trusting themselves less
they think that they have to control
something to be safe and people who
actually deeply trust themselves don't
think that that's true they know that
they're safe no matter what I mean
unless a lion's chasing them right yeah
yeah and as as mammals we can detect
that in other people a mile away we
naturally do that when we walk into a
room and we find out who is the one
that's most stressed out and scared and
who's the one that's the most calm and
then like subconsciously we put
ourselves into sort of pecking orders
based on this that's exactly it yeah and
the Predator smells it out and attacks
the one that's exactly
so that's it so that that's that part of
it and then there's also this another
part of the science is that there's
we make decisions emotionally you know
if you
took out our emotional centers of our
brain we
stop making decisions it would take us a
half an hour to decide what color pen to
use it would take us four hours to
decide where to have lunch there's a
great book on this called Descartes
error
and so we make decisions emotionally so
do people pay two hundred dollars for
Nike shoes because they think that it's
it's like 200 worth of shoe no they're
making an emotional decision
do you buy this piece of software
because you like the sales guy or the
sales woman do you buy this piece of
software because it makes you feel safe
do you buy this piece of software
because you beat it up and you feel like
oh they have answers for it
what the answer is that you are buying
that piece of software based on an
emotion
and you might use logic to figure out
the most likely way that you would get
that emotion like I I don't want to be
yelled at by my boss so I'm making an
emotional decision to not get yelled at
and I'll use logic to figure out how to
not get yelled at by my boss but we're
making emotional decisions
and so all the information in the world
won't sell people stuff if if it was
just pure information then a Nike ad
would be like
look at this shoe it has six inches of
leather siding and it has eight holes on
each side for the shoestrings and like
that would be
oh but it's not it we make the emotional
Buy
and so
if I'm hanging out with you you're
hanging out with me because of an
emotional experience that we have when
we're together if I am buying the
product it's because I'm having
emotional experience around the product
if I am wanting intimacy with you if I
would want to call you when I'm having a
problem if I want to come home and see
my parents if I
don't get offended when you tell me that
you need space all those things are
based on emotions they're not based on
facts
and so that's really
a main thing about view because we're
we're acknowledging owning and
addressing the emotional part of a
conversation well when making a decision
is only so much logic you can actually
do given the time constraint correct and
there's so much more to consider I think
what you're saying is that the the
emotions are a way that we we make a
probabilistic inference based on
everything that's happened in our lives
with a kind of a gist a feeling in our
body that helps shape
which questions we even ask with logic
to figure out the final details and then
make a decision yeah there's that aspect
of it and there's also the aspect of it
like how many decisions have you made so
that you don't feel like let's say weak
how many decisions have you made to feel
loved
like whole swaths of decisions are made
over this kind of thing
and a view conversation allows people to
have all those emotions feel safe in
them and to feel actually accepted and
wanted and appreciated in that
experience for who they are which we all
want yeah and it's being it's important
to just remember that everybody that
you're in a conversation with in any you
know even in a stuffy business
environment everybody's making emotional
decisions based on the things you just
spoke about that's right absolutely okay
so so tell me more about the payoff and
the the benefits of of practicing view
yeah this is a this is a common story in
my world I will go into a team of people
typically at Silicon Valley teams that I
go into it's not only Silicon Valley
teams but typically it is and so you're
talking about really smart programmers
or really smart business people
and they're not getting along and I I
remember this one particular example the
team had like a Navy SEAL a ex-navy seal
in it and
MIT triple graduate you know it was like
that kind of a team of just super
intense people and they weren't getting
along they weren't being productive
and half day into a two-day workshop
you know the people who hadn't been able
to get along were crying with each other
because of all the pain and all the the
all the resistance in their system that
could let go when they realized oh the
person across from me isn't doesn't hate
me isn't trying to kill me isn't trying
to destroy my thing they're we're just
not communicating with each other
clearly and it was so amazingly
beautiful
and then that team who had not hit their
performance metrics
and
I think it had been three years hit
their performance metrics that quarter
that's a payoff is like you get a
tremendous amount of cohesion Not Just
Between the team but between you and the
people around you right and we all know
that when we feel deeply connected with
somebody that we will go to the ends of
the Earth to support them and they will
go to the ends there support us and
that's really what we want from friends
and
if it's a true support it's not like a
dysfunctional support it's really what
we want it's what we want in our teams
so that's one benefit the another
benefit is that most people right now
are like oh conflict how do I avoid that
or conflict I'll just get through it I'm
just going to push go get in the
conflict so I can get on the other side
of it
when you really understand this Frame of
Mind conflict is an amazing thing
because what happens every time is that
conflict gives you better Solutions and
you're happy for it you start looking
for conflict not looking for conflict
like ah here's a way I can pick a fight
but like oh there's attention let's go
explore it because I know if I explore
it from this Frame of Mind
all of a sudden I'm going to have better
Solutions better answers
better paths forward it's also just a
really lovely state to be in it's like
quite Pleasant
you know if you are in Wonder it's a
more open and spacious feeling than if
you think you know everything all the
time like think about the people you
know in your life who know everything
all the time it's like they don't look
like they're enjoying themselves
if you think about people who are
um empathetic not in somebody but
they're just like oh I can be here with
you in your state that that's just a
more open state so it's just a really
lovely place to be
and there's the efficiency that I
mentioned like with the 10-minute
sessions and uh yeah the other thing is
that what I noticed is when people
really get into this kind of
conversation
and they start practicing it like this
sense of loneliness just dissolves
there's so many people in our society
feel very lonely and very insecure not
insecure like I'm not good enough but
insecure
like oh my God I might lose my job oh my
God and when they see this technique at
work and they
use it and that's frame of mind becomes
kind of a steady state place
what happens is they don't have that
deep experience of loneliness they know
what it is to be alone but they're not
oh my God I'm all alone and nobody loves
me that's not happening and it's not
only that the loneliness
starts to dissolve but also this sense
of security shows up in the sense of
security is there is because you realize
that like no matter what your boss says
no matter what happens you're able to
have this conversation with them that
actually benefits you and them
consistently and there's a deep level of
security in that
because we're not really scared of
losing our job and not being able to
make money what we're really scared of
is that
we're not going to be of value and that
we're not going to be heard and that
we're not going to be able to be seen
for what our value is and so we're
worried about losing our job but if we
know that every time we have a
conversation it's valuable to ourselves
and the other people around us
whenever we want that it's like that's a
deep form of security
right or if we're worried about losing
our job because that would mean to us
that we are not valuable anywhere
doesn't matter if you lose your job if
you know you're valuable somewhere else
and you could go do something that's
that you're valuable at yeah that's
right if you think about it this way
it's like if you have a conversation
with a person and at the end of that
conversation they feel like they
understand themselves better they
understand their business better they
want to continue to have conversations
with you that's how it works right yeah
and and the thing is you don't have to
know [__] to do that you just have to
ask really good questions
and be vulnerable in it and to be
empathetic in it and to be impartial in
it and to be full of wonder in it so it
doesn't even require that you have
skills
it just requires that you
are are having a conversation with them
that allows the best of them to come out
so yeah to that and I've noticed that
view is seems to be like this magical
ingredient this Special Sauce you can
just pour on a workplace and it
transforms relationships and teams and
how do you account for this
it's like like I was saying happened in
that one company that there's
that I've seen it so consistently happen
and it feels like magic I think
partially because often Revenue
increases because team cohesion
increases because sales methodology
improves because the products are more
connected with the customer and product
development conversations are better
that there's all sorts of things that
happen when people feel more connected
and they're actually more in Wonder and
they're wondering what the right
question is and they're wondering what
the customer wants and
when they're willing to be vulnerable
about maybe the product sucks there's
all sorts of cool things but really
when people are met with this
level of openness when they're met with
this level of care and nurturing
when they're met with this level of
support
they really know it and that is what
relaxes something in them
and it allows them to perform at their
best like we said at the beginning it
was
it's like if you know you're being
judged by a team if you know that
um
if you know that the people in your team
are not open to you you're not going to
be at your Peak Performance but if you
know that that's there if you know that
you
can be accepted and the boundaries will
be held
and you feel safe in that environment
you're going to be incredibly effective
even if the outside world is like man
you've got two months to solve this and
you better solve it
if you know you've got your team there
with you that's going to get you your
best performance and it's going to get
you your best performance in a marriage
as well
right if I know that my wife deeply
supports me deeply cares about me is
open to my truth is in deep wonder about
what my experience is is vulnerably
sharing with me that's what allows me to
be the best husband and vice versa
and that's really the magic of it the
magic of it isn't some technique or some
State of Mind the magic of it is that it
allows all of us it creates the
environment where all of us can be the
best that we can be where all of us can
live
in our truth that's what's the magic
is it's just like really good soil and
then the seed of who we are gets to
sprout and who we are is freaking
amazing
so view vulnerability impartiality
empathy and wonder
uh this has been a great episode Joe
thank you very much thank you
thanks for listening to the art of
accomplishment if you enjoyed what you
heard today please subscribe and rate US
in your podcast app we'd love your
feedback so feel free to send us
questions or comments you can reach out
to us join our newsletter or check out
our courses at Art of accomplishment.com
foreign